add suggested CLI-only paths (#1348)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/getting-started/cli.md

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding:

* See [Prerequisites](/prerequisites/) to ensure that your machine meets Semgrep's requirements.
* Ensure that you have and are logged into your [Semgrep Account](https://semgrep.dev/login).
* Ensure that you've enabled the **Pro Engine** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle on Semgrep Cloud Platform's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings) page.

## Set up Semgrep

<Install />

## Log into your Semgrep account

<Login />

You must log in to your Semgrep account before proceeding. Otherwise, you can't use `semgrep ci`.

## Scan your project

Navigate to the root of your repository, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

To view the results in the CLI:

```console
semgrep ci
```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep ci --sarif --output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep ci --json --output=semgrep.json
```

### Scan your project with a specific ruleset

You can scan your project using `--config auto` to automatically obtain rules tailored to your project:

```console

> semgrep scan --config auto .

Reviewer: To ``.` or not to `.` - that is the question.

# Scan with the rules defined in rules.yaml
semgrep scan --config rules.yaml
```

You can include as many configuration flags as necessary.

```console
# Scan with rules defined in two separate config files
semgrep scan --config rules.yaml --config more_rules.yaml
```

### Scan without sending results to Semgrep

To scan your project **without** sending data to Semgrep, use:

```console
semgrep ci --dry-run
```

This can be helpful to verify the results of a specific ruleset or to see how your findings change based on the rulesets you choose for your scans.

### Scan using Semgrep's OSS engine

To scan your project with Semgrep's OSS Engine, even though you have the Pro Engine enabled in Semgrep Cloud Platform:

```console
semgrep ci --oss-only
```

:::info
See [Semgrep Pro versus Semgrep OSS](/semgrep-pro-vs-oss) for information on the differences between Semgrep Pro and OSS Engines.
:::

## Scan using specific Semgrep Products

When you run `semgrep ci`, you're scanning your project with Semgrep Code, Semgrep Supply Chain, and Semgrep Secrets. To scan your project with just one product, run:

```console
# scan with Semgrep Code
semgrep ci --code

# scan with Semgrep Supply Chain

> semgrep ci --supply chain

Reviewer: Is there a dash on supply chain?

---
slug: cli

> title: CLI-only workflow (Pro)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Local CLI scans
```

hide_title: true
description: Learn how to set up Semgrep, scan your first project for security issues, and view your findings in the CLI.
tags:
  - quickstart
  - cli
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp";
import Install from "/src/components/procedure/_install-cli.mdx";
import Login from "/src/components/procedure/_login-activate.mdx";

> # CLI-only workflow with Semgrep's Pro Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Local scans with Semgrep Pro Engine
```
I appreciate the callout "with Semgrep Pro Engine" and happy we provide them with the OSS flag.

Learn how to set up Semgrep, scan your project for security issues using Semgrep's Pro Engine, and view your findings in the CLI.

:::info

> For scans in your local development environment, `semgrep scan` is the preferred method to scan with Semgrep, especially for writing and testing custom rules.

Reviewer: Semgrep provides two commands to scan with in your CLI:

- `semgrep scan` - This is the recommended command for scanning local codebases, as well as writing and testing custom rules.
- `semgrep ci` - This is the recommended command if you are scanning repositories with Semgrep as part of an organization with custom rules and policies. `semgrep ci` fetches your organization's scan configurations from Semgrep Cloud Platform.
```suggestion
For scans in your local development environment, `semgrep scan` is the preferred method to scan with Semgrep, especially for writing and testing custom rules.
```

:::

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding:

* See [Prerequisites](/prerequisites/) to ensure that your machine meets Semgrep's requirements.

> * Ensure that you have and are logged into your [Semgrep Account](https://semgrep.dev/login).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For scans using `semgrep ci`:
    * Ensure that you have and are logged into your [Semgrep Account](https://semgrep.dev/login).
```

> * Ensure that you've enabled the **Pro Engine** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle on Semgrep Cloud Platform's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Ensure that you've enabled the **Pro Engine** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle on Semgrep Cloud Platform's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings) page.
```
Indentation

## Set up Semgrep

<Install />

> ## Log into your Semgrep account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log in to your Semgrep account
```

<Login />

> You must log in to your Semgrep account before proceeding. Otherwise, you can't use `semgrep ci`.

Reviewer 2: I thought we weren't going to say this just yet? @s-santillan

Author: I don't mind removing, but it already warns users of this in the CLI; I thought it might be helpful to get ahead of the not-logged-in error?

Reviewer: Yeah the product already enforces it. We'd just be matching the current product behavior. Katie noticed it first; me not noticing this ASAP and realizing how much it impacts the docs is something I have to work on.

Reviewer 2: @s-santillan Based on the latest thread, my understanding is that it doesn't enforce it yet (although it is something that may happen in the future). What it enforces now is that you can't both be logged in/provide a token, and use --config. If you're not logged in and use --config, it still works.

Reviewer: Got it. This isn't in live yet, so I'll make the correction in my follow up PR (https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-docs/pull/1350). cc @khorne3 (And yes I will fix the sidebars.)

## Scan your project

Navigate to the root of your repository, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

To view the results in the CLI:

```console
semgrep ci
```

To export the results to a plain text file:

```console
semgrep ci --text --output=semgrep.txt
```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep ci --sarif --output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep ci --json --output=semgrep.json
```

### Scan your project with a specific ruleset

You can scan your project using `--config auto` to automatically obtain rules tailored to your project:

```console

> semgrep scan --config auto

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
semgrep scan --config auto --pro
```
If you're logged in but you run with scan, you need to specify Pro or it runs with OSS. Only `semgrep ci` can fetch whether you have the toggle enabled.

```

:::info

> Semgrep collects pseudonymous metrics when you use rules from the Registry.

Reviewer 2: Same change as my suggestion in the other doc - we should include how to turn metrics off

:::

To scan your project with a specific ruleset, either one that you write or one that you obtain from the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore), you can do so using the `--config` flag:

```console
# Scan with the rules defined in rules.yaml
semgrep scan --config rules.yaml
```

You can include as many configuration flags as necessary.

```console
# Scan with rules defined in two separate config files
semgrep scan --config rules.yaml --config more_rules.yaml
```

#### Test custom rules

Semgrep includes functionality to [test the custom rules that you write](/writing-rules/testing-rules/):

```console
semgrep scan --test
```

#### Publish custom rules

To share your rules by adding them to the Semgrep Registry:

```console
semgrep publish <path/to/rules>
```

### Scan without sending results to Semgrep

> To scan your project **without** sending data to Semgrep, use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To scan your project using the configuration you've set up in Semgrep Cloud Platform **without** sending scan results to Semgrep, use:
```

```console
semgrep ci --dry-run
```

This can be helpful to verify the results of a specific ruleset or to see how your findings change based on the rulesets you choose for your scans.

### Scan using Semgrep's OSS engine

To scan your project with Semgrep's OSS Engine, even though you have the Pro Engine enabled in Semgrep Cloud Platform:

```console
semgrep ci --oss-only
```

:::info
See [Semgrep Pro versus Semgrep OSS](/semgrep-pro-vs-oss) for information on the differences between Semgrep Pro and OSS Engines.
:::

## Scan using specific Semgrep Products

> When you run `semgrep ci`, you scan your project with Semgrep Code, Semgrep Supply Chain, and Semgrep Secrets. To scan your project with just one product, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you run `semgrep ci`, you scan your project with any project that is enabled in the Cloud Platform. To scan your project with just one product, run:
```

```console
# scan with Semgrep Code
semgrep ci --code

# scan with Semgrep Supply Chain
semgrep ci --supply-chain

# scan with Semgrep Secrets
semgrep ci --secrets
```

## Extend timeout thresholds

> Depending on the file sizes in your project, you may need to increase the timeout threshold so that Semgrep doesn't time out before the scan completes. You can control this value using the `--timeout-threshold` flag, which refers to the maximum amount of time Semgrep spends scanning a single file. The default value is 30 seconds. Semgrep attempts to scan each file with this timeout value three times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the file sizes in your project, you may need to increase the timeout threshold so that Semgrep doesn't time out before the scan completes. You can control this value using the `--timeout` flag, which refers to the maximum amount of time Semgrep spends scanning a single file. The default value is 5 seconds. Semgrep attempts to scan each file with this timeout value three times.
```
The time length is controlled with --timeout (default is 5 seconds in recent versions), and the number of times (default 3) is controlled with --timeout-threshold, so you could also add information on that after the last sentence.

```console
# increase timeout to 45 seconds
semgrep ci --timeout-threshold 45
```

## Improve performance for large codebases

You can set the number of subprocesses Semgrep uses to run checks in parallel:

```console
semgrep scan -j NUMBER_OF_SUBPROCESSES
```

> By default, Semgrep defaults to the number of cores detected on the system on which Semgrep is running, but `-j = 1` if you're passing in `--pro`. For additional information, see [Parallelization](/kb/semgrep-code/scan-engine-kill)

Reviewer 2: the link makes sense here :)

## Set log levels

Semgrep provides three levels of logging:

| **Log level** | **Flag** | **Description** |
| - | - | - |
| Default | None | Prints scan progress, findings information, warnings, and errors. |
| Verbose | `-v` or `--verbose` | Includes everything printed when using the default logging level, adding a list of rules and details such as skipped files. |
| Debug | `--debug` | Logs the entire scan process at a high level of detail. |

### Example usage

To set the logging level for a scan, include the flag when scanning your project:

```console
# run a scan and get debug logs
semgrep ci --debug
```

## Exit codes

> The CLI commands `semgrep ci` and `semgrep scan` finish with exit code `0` as long as the scan completes, regardless of whether there were findings. To finish with exit code `1` when there are findings, pass in the `--error` flag.

Reviewer 2: This is not true. If you've configured blocking rules in SCP, `semgrep ci` will exit 1.

tags:
  - quickstart
  - cli
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp";
import Install from "/src/components/procedure/_install-cli.mdx";
import Login from "/src/components/procedure/login-activate.mdx";

# CLI-only workflow

Learn how to set up Semgrep, scan your first project for security issues, and view your findings in the CLI.

## Prerequisites

See [Prerequisites](/prerequisites/) to ensure that your machine meets Semgrep's requirements.

## Set up Semgrep

<Install />

## Log into your Semgrep account

<Login />

## Scan your project

<Tabs
    defaultValue="pro"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Pro', value: 'pro'},
    {label: 'Semgrep OSS', value: 'oss'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='pro'>

Navigate to the root of your repository, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

To view the results in the CLI:

```console
semgrep ci
```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep ci --sarif --output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep ci --json --output=semgrep.json
```

> ### Scan your project with a specific ruleset

Reviewer: We actually do not want people to use `semgrep ci --config auto`:

https://semgrepinc.slack.com/archives/C8HRFBPSQ/p1699643585940479

```console
# increase timeout to 45 seconds, try only 2 times
semgrep ci --timeout 30 --timeout-threshold 2
```

## Improve performance for large codebases

You can set the number of subprocesses Semgrep uses to run checks in parallel:

```console
semgrep scan -j NUMBER_OF_SUBPROCESSES
```

By default, the number of jobs Semgrep uses is equivalent to the number of cores detected on the system, but `-j = 1` if you're passing in `--pro`. For additional information, see [Parallelization](/kb/semgrep-code/scan-engine-kill).

## Set log levels

Semgrep provides three levels of logging:

| **Log level** | **Flag** | **Description** |
| - | - | - |
| Default | None | Prints scan progress, findings information, warnings, and errors. |
| Verbose | `-v` or `--verbose` | Includes everything printed when using the default logging level, adding a list of rules and details such as skipped files. |
| Debug | `--debug` | Logs the entire scan process at a high level of detail. |

### Example usage

To set the logging level for a scan, include the flag when scanning your project:

```console
# run a scan and get debug logs
semgrep ci --debug
```

## Exit codes

> The CLI commands `semgrep ci` and `semgrep scan` finish with exit code `0` as long as the scan completes, regardless of whether there were findings. To finish with exit code `1` when there are findings:

Author: @armchairlinguist Do you mind taking a look at this section again? Not completely sure I explained it correctly (I also added an exit codes section to the OSS doc)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this isn't quite right yet. The first two are correct, but the the last item is incorrect. You only use `--no-suppress-errors` if you also want internal errors not to be suppressed. To get exit code 1, you only need rules in blocking mode that have findings in the scan.

## Set log levels

Semgrep provides three levels of logging:

| **Log level** | **Flag** | **Description** |
| - | - | - |
| Default | None | Prints scan progress, findings information, warnings, and errors. |
| Verbose | `-v` or `--verbose` | Includes everything printed when using the default logging level, adding a list of rules and details such as skipped files. |
| Debug | `--debug` | Logs the entire scan process at a high level of detail. |

### Example usage

To set the logging level for a scan, include the flag when scanning your project:

```console
# run a scan and get debug logs
semgrep ci --debug
```

## Exit codes

The CLI commands `semgrep ci` and `semgrep scan` finish with exit code `0` as long as the scan completes, regardless of whether there were findings. To finish with exit code `1` when there are findings:

* [Configure blocking rules](/semgrep-code/policies/#blocking-a-pr-or-mr-through-rule-modes)
* Pass in the `--error` flag when running `semgrep scan`.

> When you run `semgrep ci`, you can pass in the `--no-suppress-errors` if you don't want internal errors suppressed.

Reviewer 2: Recommendation: link to the exit codes doc here also, to clarify what kinds of errors are internal. Otherwise looks good though! I only looked at the exit codes stuff this time around.
